USWDS-Proposals - ADR: Improve modularity in USWDS (#24)
uswds/uswds-proposals: decisions/0006-improve-modularity.md

<!--
The record number and the title should be in the filename.
For example:
/decisions/0000-adr-title.md
-->

<!--
PR Title:
ADR Proposal: A brief description
-->

# 0000-adr-title

| Date       | Status   |
| ---------- | -------- |
| 2024-12-19 | Proposed |

<!--
Status options:
- Draft
- Proposed
- Approved
- Rejected
- Deprecated
- Superseded
-->

## Context

USWDS is becoming a set of products, in the form of tools and targets. To improve performance and provide flexibility to teams we should make USWDS more modular by offering products such as:

- USWDS Core (our current HTML/CSS with SASS variables, mixins, functions)
- USWDS Elements (a new HTML Web Components-based version of USWDS Core)
- USWDS Utilities
- USWDS Components
- USWDS Tokens
- USWDS design kit

## Decision

We'll create additional products and resources that teams can use individually, such as: utilities, tokens, SASS helpers, and HTML components.

### Alternatives

Staying on the monolithic repo. This has proven difficult to maintain both centrally and for teams that implement the system, increases dependencies, and doesn't allow us to quickly make changes and ship features.

## Consequences

> ### Benefits

Reviewer: **suggestion:** may be good to explicitly call out performance and bundle size, since the hope is that increasing modularity will make it easier to make each package as small as possible

Author: @heymatthenry good idea. Tried to capture in f5e50e8.

<!--
The record number and the title should be in the filename.
For example:
/decisions/0000-adr-title.md
-->

<!--
PR Title:
ADR Proposal: A brief description
-->

# 0000-adr-title

| Date       | Status   |
| ---------- | -------- |

> | 2024-12-19 | Proposed |

Author: **chore**: Update status before merge.

```suggestion
| 2024-12-19 | Approved |
```

<!--
Status options:
- Draft
- Proposed
- Approved
- Rejected
- Deprecated
- Superseded
-->

## Context

USWDS is becoming a set of products, in the form of tools and targets. To improve performance and provide flexibility to teams we should make USWDS more modular by offering products such as:

- USWDS Core (our current HTML/CSS with SASS variables, mixins, functions)
- USWDS Elements (a new HTML Web Components-based version of USWDS Core)
- USWDS Utilities
- USWDS Components
- USWDS Tokens
- USWDS design kit

## Decision

> We'll create additional products and resources that teams can use individually, such as: utilities, tokens, SASS helpers, and HTML components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By refactoring existing code and creating new products, such as utilities, tokens, SASS helpers, and HTML components, we will support more modular, composable ways of working.
```
